my name is Ian I have worked on the
operations team for the falcone project
which you can think of loosely as
everything that's not core protocol
engineering or research so there's a
whole mess of stuff that runs through
the team among them is something that
I've been really lucky to have the
chance to work on although a couple of
my colleagues have done the both of the
work presenting it has fallen on me it's
a program that we announced yesterday
called fail coin discover so to
understand the underlying goals of
falcone discover you have to zoom out a
little bit to the goals of Falcone so
the purpose of Clow coin fundamentally
is to create a decentralized efficient
and reliable foundation for all of
humanity's information and there is just
a ton of information that we think it's
incredibly valuable to ensure is
accessible reliably everywhere of the
world and cheaply so here's some
examples of the types of datasets that
we think about there's a link at the
bottom of the page where you can go to
look at the full set of datasets that
we're thinking about supporting early on
so we came into this project with this
goal where we're building this network
file coin we want to make sure that it
does in fact serve as a repository for
important information how can we boot
store bootstrap that process how can we
create a model for what it looks like to
get certain types of important data on
file Qin work out the kinks
when it comes to actually ingesting and
processing and distributing that data
and then push that model out into the
world for other people to use and push
that data out into the world for other
people to access the naive solution to
this is like hey you sort of get the
data and you keep it on a hard drive and
you ship it out over the Internet and
then people replicate it all over the
world it turns out that that might work
for you know individual videos or
smaller files but when you start
thinking about trying to solve this
problem at massive scale it gets a lot
more complicated so we set this initial
target of launching the system at multi
petabyte scale so that we could feel
like we were supporting you know an
adequate diversity of data sets and
replicating them enough we started doing
some napkin math and we realized that
shipping this amount of data in this
sort of naive way would take 25 years or
longer under sort of like fully
saturated reasonably fast internet
connection
and so we had to start getting creative
so we launched this program again to
seed this process to serve as one of
hopefully many sources on Falcon of
providing these datasets concretely what
does that look like so we assembled
these big open-source data sets in sort
of how we picked the initial sets is a
totally separate but interesting
discussion and then rather than trying
to ship them over the internet we have
this process put in place where we
actually preload the data onto hard
drives so it turns out that you can get
you know many many orders of magnitude
faster bandwidth although obviously the
latency is quite high if you put data
onto hard drives and then physically
ship them around the world rather than
trying to send it over to the end goal
of this situation is that we have this
data allotted at the hard drives and
then there's a system in place by which
folks who want to serve as storage
providers on file coin in order the hard
drives we ship them to them and we get
to this end state on the right where
this important data is replicated and
highly available across many different
regions all around the world so if I've
been a lightning talk is not a very long
period of time to talk about all of the
interesting challenges that you run into
you through this process you this is the
high level architecture diagram on the
right that gives you a sense of the
complexity here but you have to address
some really interesting questions what
data should we store how do we get it
how do we replicate it how do we
actually ingest it into file coin when
you start trying to think about how to
pull down multi terabyte or petabyte
datasets and make them actually
interactable in an interesting way
you're in some interesting problems how
do we physically deliver the data to
miners how do you let miners redeem
these storage deals so that they're
actually being supported to store these
important datasets and then how do we
make the data available to users so that
it's not just an art project but it's
actually putting important data into the
world in a way that you know can advance
scientific inquiry can help preserve
cultural data that people can use so the
program launched 27 hours ago and we had
optimistically ordered an initial batch
of four hundred eight terabyte hard
drives that we were hoping you know we
would ideally make our way through just
about a day later we
have received pre-orders for 650 hard
drives or more than five petabytes of
data so this is a smashing success from
our perspective we're super psyched
about the opportunity to get these
datasets out of the world and preserve
them at huge scale and there's going to
be a ton more to come we're really
optimistic if you want to learn more
about this here's a few links for you
there's the main blog post that launched
this discover you can just search with a
Falcone blog to see that there's a store
which is linked from the blog post and
then if you're interested in learning
more about mining there's the file coin
dock site linked here as well as the
main power point page Thanks